Amazon Cognito Sync is an AWS service and client library that enables cross-device syncing of application-related user data. You can use it to synchronize user profile data across mobile devices and the web without requiring your own backend. The client libraries cache data locally so your app can read and write data regardless of device connectivity status. When the device is online, you can synchronize data, and if you set up push sync, notify other devices immediately that an update is available.

Amazon Cognito lets you save end user data in datasets containing key-value pairs. This data is associated with an Amazon Cognito identity, so that it can be accessed across logins and devices. To sync this data between the Amazon Cognito service and an end user’s devices, invoke the synchronize method. Each dataset can have a maximum size of 1 MB. You can associate up to 20 datasets with an identity.

The Amazon Cognito Sync client creates a local cache for the identity data. Your app talks to this local cache when it reads and writes keys. This guarantees that all of your changes made on the device are immediately available on the device, even when you are offline. When the synchronize method is called, changes from the service are pulled to the device, and any local changes are pushed to the service. At this point the changes are available to other devices to synchronize.

Amazon Cognito automatically tracks the association between identity and devices. Using the push synchronization, or push sync, feature, you can ensure that every instance of a given identity is notified when identity data changes. Push sync ensures that, whenever the sync store data changes for a particular identity, all devices associated with that identity receive a silent push notification informing them of the change.